#title Kernel Life Game
#keywords life game, kernel, linux

Implementation of life game in linux kernel.

Links:
 - Git repository: [[git://github.com/Shmuma/klife.git]]
 - Github page: http://github.com/Shmuma/klife/

NB: Yes, I know about [[http://www.mulix.org/klife.html][Multix's implementation]], by my is better (NIH principle, hehe).

* Project status

TODO:
 - Board resize
 - Timer interface
 - Life game rules

Done aka <s>finished</s>:
 - Board memory allocation
 - Calculation of board's size from memory allocated (integer square root using Newton's method)
 - /proc interface

* User interface
We have a /proc interface which allows us:
 - create simulations,
 - run them in continous manner or step-by-step,
 - examine board state,
 - change board`s state.
 - destroy it.

** /proc interface
Control interface lives in /proc/klife and has the following entries:
 - =version= -- version ov module
 - =status= -- information of currently active simulations and overral
   module status iinformation,
 - =boards/= -- directory with boards,
 - =boards/create= -- control file which allows to create boards,
 - =boards/destroy= -- control file which allows to destroy boards,

Every board identified by integer number assigned sequentially on
board's creation. It's state and control interface represented in
=/proc/klife/boards/ID/= directory, which has the following entries:

 - =field= -- ASCII representation of board`s field,
 - =mode= -- board's mode of simulation. It can be =step= for
   manual tracing or =run= for automatic simulation.
 - =delay= -- interval in microseconds between board's step in =run= mode,
 - =step= -- integer counter of board's generations passed,
 - =status= -- overral board's status information,
 - =enabled= -- 0 or 1.

** Board defnition

To fill board with data, you can use =/proc/klife/boards/NN/board= file (where =NN= is the board's ID). It handles the following write
requests in text form (one per line):

 - =set X Y= -- set cell (X,Y) flled,
 - =clear X Y= -- clear cell (X,Y),
 - =toggle X Y= -- invert cell (X,Y) state.

Board is resized automatically.

** Board status

To obtain current state of board, just cat =/proc/klife/boards/NN/board=.

