#title SQLite for MT4

Some time ago, I needed a fast and small storage for MetaTrader4 experts. CSV files are slow, binary
files are ugly, so I decided to create SQLite wrapper dll for MT4.

Project GIT repository: http://github.com/Shmuma/sqlite3-mt4-wrapper

* Change history

  - 2010-07: fixed bug with relative pathnames
  - 2009-10: first public release

* Download

  - Library:
    http://github.com/Shmuma/sqlite3-mt4-wrapper/raw/master/sqlite3_wrapper.dll
  - Header file: http://github.com/Shmuma/sqlite3-mt4-wrapper/raw/master/sqlite.mqh

* Installation

  1. Download it,
  2. copy sqlite3_wrapper.dll into system32 folder (or anywhere MT can find it),
  3. copy sqlite.mqh into includes folder.

* Usage

There are two examples which perform schema creation, data insertion and query.

Library exports six routines:

  1. =int sqlite_exec (string db, string sql)= -- executes query which result we are not interested in
(for example, create, update or delete). If database doesn't exist, it will be created. Path to
database can be absolute or relative to the current path of program.
  2. =int sqlite_table_exists (string db, string table)= -- returns 1 if table exists, 0 if not.
  3. =int sqlite_query (string db, string sql, int& cols[])= -- performs query and returns integer
handle to query results. To iterate over data, use =sqlite_next_row= and =sqlite_get_col=. To free
results, use =sqlite_free_query=.
  4. =int sqlite_next_row (int handle)= -- fetches next row into internal space.
  5. =string sqlite_get_col (int handle, int col)= -- obtains column's value.
  6. =int sqlite_free_query (int handle)= -- frees query handle.
